To illustrate a dependence injection and coddling, I'm going to create a few a couple classes here
so we can take a look.
OK, so we're going to use the same example of car, an engine that we talked about in previous video.
So you will also notice that I'm using codling playground here.
It's an online calling text editor that allows you to write some code and compile and right now in real
time that this case here can click here.
You can see hello.
It's printing there instead of using an ID, such an Android studio or any IDs or a text editor was
there.
This is simple and quick to get to.
You're free to use any other text editor is there.
What are we going to do here?
So I'm going to get rid of this first and right below here, I'm going to create a class called car.
OK, it's very simple.
In this class, we're going to have a function, this function, I'm going to call start car.
And this one would say print l end.
There we go.
It's a first class, and then we understand that a car needs an engine engine as such an hourglass here.
I'm going to say start Chris.
We understand also that car depends on engine.
So in this case here, because we know before we instantiate a car, we will need to have that engine.
So of course, what we could do is inside of our car class would create a vowel, write a property that
is going to be our engine.
So in this case, here I am injecting a dependency into our car, in this case, the engine to satiate
our engine section inside of our star car.
I can even append.
I can say something like this engine dot start because I have an engine object in our car that we inject
injected that dependency so we can invoke the actual engine.
I'm going to say, for instance, Engine X like that.
All right.
So we can go up here and say, for instance, vowel car sequel to Car Right instantiated and it can
just go ahead and car start.
Car like this?
Actually put a body so that we don't end up with shoes.
Our functions here.
All right.
So now in main here I can go ahead and say vall car and instantiate a car object and I can say car dot
start.
Like this, or I'm or start card, it is start car, so I'm invoking this function here, which is,
you remember it gets the engine injected right object and starts with that engine.
So if I go ahead and run.
I say print and print out and like this, making sure everything is good if I run, you can see that
we are going to have Engine X started started.
Car, of course, is giving us coddling that unit here because we know that it's out of print and an
engine that star also passes in a print l.
So that's that's that's not a problem.
That's OK.
But what's important here?
See, the engine started because the engine here you notice that we have injected this dependency here
as an object.
And you can see Engine X started.
It's called because it's part of our car class, right?
And of course, we invoked it starting the car.
You can see that this is wonderful.
It works great.
We're able to add that dependency.
So a car now, every time we invoke the car, we know that we have the engine and we can do all sorts
of things.
In this case.
In the start, we I'm passing in the engine that start.
I could have also created another function here that takes this engine and deserve everything because
we have access to this engine object as a property of this car.
Now what are the problems here?
Problem number one is that this engine is always attached to this car glass, which means every time
we invoke or we essentially don't recall it, we're going to have a piece of this engine.
This is not good because it violates this single responsibility principle that says each class needs
to have a single responsibility.
Now, our car doesn't have a single responsibility at all because we have yet another object there.
So it's not loose per se.
It's connected forever with this engine object inside of this car.
This makes it really hard to write code that is testable to write code that is flexible even right,
because it's because of these coupling, this attachment that we have with our engine.
Now, the better way to do this is by doing dependency injection, but by forcing this injection through
the constructor.
While this means instead of doing this, I'm going to say not good.
Instead of doing this way, what are we going to do instead?
We're going to inject this dependency.
The the constructor.
So you would say something like this foul engine.
It's going to be engine type like this.
So now things are a little bit different because that means the car expects to receive an engine.
Type, because we are directly injecting right this engine type into our constructor.
Look, what happens now instead of main?
Here, I can create another valve called engine.
It's going to be an engine object, right?
We instantiating that in the for our car here.
Look, we can pass that engine like this.
That's what we need to complete our dependency injection here now that we have this engine because we're
passing it along, not as attached like this inside of this class, right?
All we do now is just create an engine can create as many engines as we want and just inject them in
the constructor.
Let's go ahead and see if run.
Right, engine started starting car, same thing that we've seen before, the results, however, we've
gained a lot of things, one of which is that we no longer are violating this single responsibility
principle because the car is not attached to the engine as we had before.
So every time we create a car previously, we would have to also go ahead and create this engine, which
gets its attached inside as a property inside of this class.
Now that is no longer the case, because now what happens that we're passing the engine object, the
engine type as a primary in our construct, for instance, let's say I want to create another kind of
engine that can say class.
Let's call this turbo engine and turbo engine here.
I'm going to have this fun start.
This function here will just say print out and say Turbo in our car here.
I can just go ahead and say something like, Guess I can now inject another one, several turbo and
it's going to be a turbo engine type of such, which means, you know, our main here, we can instantiate
a new engine and say Turbo, and then I'm going to pass our turbo engine like this, OK?
And look what I can do for a car.
I can say car that I can use the engine and invoke this start like this.
Or I can say car got turbo that start like this because we were able to pass the engine normal engine
and it can come here and change for our turbo Truex on normal engine.
I'm going to say changes to that with normal engine is start turbo engine.
And then here in our car, I'm going to just say can just delete all of this?
That's fine.
And now if I go ahead and run, I can see I have start with normal engine and start turbo engine.
All of this is happening because we were able to inject that dependency via the constructor.
And as you can see here, you can inject as many engines as we want and we won't need to come and change
anything inside of our class here.
The main class car class.
OK, because the way things were before, ever time would have to come inside of our car and create
another VAR department here as a property of this new engine, which would be in this case, the turbo
engine, which means then we'll end up with a lot of different classes that are being passed in as properties
in this car, which is not a good thing, as we said before.
So this is the power of the penis injection.
Again, this is a simple example, but I hope you'll start giving you some ideas.
The reason why we want to use dependency injection, especially as we build our apps, because it gives
us this flexibility to have our code that is decoupled from other parts, from other objects.
And it's a very important concept in the programming.
This can get a little bit complicated and cumbersome, especially when we start adding more and more
classes to your to your project and your project gets larger.
So to manage all of these dependency injections can be can be hard.
So there is a library called Helt and Dagger that facilitates this whole process for us.
Now I have to say these libraries are very complex in nature.
There are a lot of articles are being written just for them to cover them and the setting up of these
projects into a project.
It takes a little bit right because there's a lot of different moving parts and different things that
we have to do to get it all set up.
But it is worth the time because you will get the full benefit of dependency injection and you now know
how advantageous that is.
All right, so that's what we're going to be doing.
That means we're going to be using room, of course, to add that persistence layer to our app.
And with that, to simplify everything, we're going to use this dependency injection like not ourselves,
but we're going to use this library called hilt.
So but I want you to keep in mind that what I just showed you about dependency injection, that is the
basis of these libraries, even though this libraries require a little bit more work to put things together.
But the idea is the same in the background.
These libraries help us to abstract out this process of controlling these dependencies that we need
with our objects.
All right, let's go ahead and get started.